feat(select): initial design guidance (#14)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1024-select-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-16
updated: 2024-10-22
---

> # Select Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Select Design Guidance
```

> [Select](https://clarity.design/documentation/select) component allows users to choose one or multiple item(s) from a list of options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [select](https://clarity.design/documentation/select) control allows users to choose one or multiple items from a list of options.
```

> A [select](https://clarity.design/documentation/select) control allows users to choose one or multiple items from a list of options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A [select](https://clarity.design/documentation/select) control enables users to choose one or multiple items from a list of options, providing a streamlined way to make selections within forms or applications.
```

## Guidance

> - **Must** use when a user doesn't need to see the list of options until they click to view the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use a select control when users don't need to see the list of options until they click to view it.
```

> - **Must not** use if you have fewer than 6 options. Consider using a [radio](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio) component instead.

Reviewer: Is this really a "must not" thing or a "should not" thing? cc: @jbusta5

- **Should** avoid having multiple lines of text in select field option. If the text is too long for one line, add an ellipsis (…).

> - **Should** use labels to describe what the data in the select field is all about.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** use labels to clearly describe the data represented in the select field, ensuring users understand the context and purpose of their selections.
```

> - **Should** use appropriate [select states](https://clarity.design/documentation/select#states).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** use appropriate [select states](https://clarity.design/documentation/select#states) to provide clear feedback on user interactions. This helps users understand the current status of their selection, improving usability and ensuring that they can navigate the form effectively.
```
